Curtailment
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of
cover for your proportional share of any unused:
1. pre-paid excursions booked before you go on your trip
up to a maximum £250
2. pre-paid accommodation
3. pre-paid foreign car hire; and
4. pre-paid transport charges
that are directly related to your trip, which you have paid
and cannot get back from anyone else in the first instance,
or which cannot be transferred or used for another purpose,
as well as any additional travel expenses incurred to get you
home, if you had to cut short your trip because the
following unexpectedly happened after you left home which
you could not have been expected to foresee or avoid:
1. you, anyone named on this insurance, a travel
companion, a close relative, a close business associate,
or the person you were going to stay with became ill,
was injured or died.
2. your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a
catastrophe, and alternative accommodation was not
provided.
3. you, or a travel companion were called for jury service
or required as a witness in a court of law.
4. you, or a travel companion had leave withdrawn and
are in the armed forces (including reserves and
territorial), emergency services, medical or nursing
professions (in the public sector) or senior employees of
the government.
5. as a result of fire, earthquake, storm, flood, riot or civil
unrest; the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development
Office (FCDO) or comparable prohibitive regulations by
the government of the country you were due to visit
and within fifty (50) miles of your chosen destination,
change the travel advice to advise against all or all but
essential travel.
(Please note: You must use or re-validate your original
ticket for your early return. If this is not possible you must
provide evidence that additional costs were necessary. Any
refunds due on unused original tickets will be deducted from
your claim. If you do not have an original return ticket, you
will not be reimbursed for costs incurred for your early
return).
Provided:
1. you have contacted the 24/7 assistance team before
making any arrangements.
2. you have paid your excess or accepted it will be
deducted from any settlement.
3. you are not claiming due to a known event.
4. you are not claiming as a result of any epidemic, or
pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation
(WHO).
5. you are not claiming due to Foreign, Commonwealth
and Development Office (FCDO), government or local
authority advice relating to any infectious disease.
6. you do not ask us to pay for the cost of your original
return ticket when we have paid for a new ticket or
arranged your medical repatriation.
7. you did not cut short your trip because:
• you simply did not want to continue travelling or
had a fear of continuing your trip.
• you could no longer afford to pay for the trip.
• of an existing medical condition which you have
not told us about and that we have not agreed to
cover in writing.
• of a normal pregnancy, without any accompanying
bodily injury, illness, disease, or complication.
Normal Childbirth would not constitute an
unforeseen event. Please see pregnancy under
Health/existing medical conditions of this policy.
8. you, or a travel companion are not the defendant in a
court of law.
9. you did obtain prior authority to take leave, or your
leave was not cancelled on disciplinary grounds.
10. you do not ask us to pay for a loss that is insured or
guaranteed by any other existing protection, specifically
the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements
Regulations 2018, Air Passenger Rights, ATOL (including
Civil Aviation Authority requirements), or ABTA
protection, or from your credit card provider under s75
Consumer Credit Act, or any other specific legislation for
transport or travel providers.
11. you do not ask us to pay for any costs already accepted
or offered by your transport and/or accommodation
provider, even if this is a credit note or alternative travel
arrangements.
12. you are able to prove your financial loss.
13. you did not purchase insurance with the intention or
likelihood of claiming.
14. your claim is not relating to course charges or tuition
fees unless agreed in writing by us.
15. you must provide us with any information or
documentation we may require enabling us to verify
and process your claim.
There is no cover provided under this section for anything
mentioned in the General conditions and exclusions
applying to all sections of cover in this policy. Additionally,
no cover is provided under this section for:
1. Disembarkation from a cruise ship that does not
involve immediate return to your home.
2. Pregnancy, if you will be less than 8 weeks (or 16
weeks if more than one baby) pregnant before the due
delivery date at the start of, or during your trip and
you still choose to travel, unless this is a result of
Complications of Pregnancy and Childbirth.
If you need to make a claim:
• If you need to curtail (cut short) your trip due to a
medical emergency relating to anyone named on this
insurance or travelling with you, you must contact the
24/7 assistance team first on +44 (0)2920 474 133 for
your claim to be valid.
• If you need to curtail (cut short) your trip due to a
reason, other than a medical emergency to anyone

13
• insured or travelling with you, you must contact the
non-emergency claims team on +44 (0)2920 474 138
for your claim to be valid.
Our claims handlers will need to see:
• Completed curtailment claim form
• Booking invoice(s) for each part of the trip
• Evidence to support the reason for your curtailment,
including the medical certificate in your claim form
completed and stamped by the General Practitioner of
the person(s) whose illness, injury or death has led to
the curtailment, if applicable. This doesn’t apply if the
medical reason relates to you and you have contacted
our assistance team at the time, and they have
confirmed you need to return home early
• Proof of your payment for each part of the trip (bank /
card statements)
• All invoices, bank / card statements and receipts for
any additional costs you incur as a result of your early
return home
• Details of other insurance, or third party responsible, if
applicable