Missed departure and Travel delay
Missed Departure
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of
cover:
for necessary travel and accommodation expenses required
to reach your booked destination, if the vehicle in which you
are travelling to your international departure point
becomes undrivable due to mechanical failure or being
involved in an accident or your public transport is delayed,
preventing you from being able to check-in on time for your
outward departure from the United Kingdom, Channel
Islands, Isle of Man or BFPO.
Provided:
1. you have allowed sufficient time to check-in as shown
on your itinerary.
2. you have paid your excess or accepted it will be
deducted from any settlement.
Or
Travel Delay
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of
cover for each full 12 hours delay if:
the departure of your international flight, international train
or sailing is delayed for more than twelve (12) hours from its
scheduled departure time from your international
departure point.
Provided:
1. you are not claiming for additional expenses if you are
forced to cut short your trip or any expenses for loss of
accommodation, loss of car hire expenses, loss of
excursions or any loss not specified in the policy.
2. you are at the airport/port/station and the delay is over
twelve (12) hours.
3. delay is not due to the diversion of aircraft after it has
departed.
4. the claim is not due to a strike or industrial action which
began or was announced before the start date of your
policy and/or the date your travel tickets or
confirmation of booking were issued.
Or
Abandonment
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of
cover if:
after twelve (12) hours of delay at the airport, rail terminal
or port your outbound journey from the United Kingdom,
Channel Islands, Isle of Man or BFPO, you abandon the trip.
Provided:
1. your trip is not a one-way trip.
2. you have paid your excess or accepted it will be
deducted from any settlement.
3. your flight was not cancelled by the airline.
4. you are not abandoning your trip as a result of any
epidemic or pandemic as declared by the World Health
Organisation (WHO).
5. you are not abandoning your trip due to Foreign,
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO),
government or local advice relating to any infectious
disease.
There is no cover provided under this section for anything
mentioned in the General conditions and exclusions
applying to all sections of cover in this policy. Additionally,
no cover is provided under this section for:
1. any compensation when your tour operator has
rescheduled your flight itinerary or the airline/railway
company/shipping line/handling agents offer or
provide alternative transport that departs within 12
hours or where you were/are able to obtain a refund
from any other source, where your scheduled airline is
bonded or insured elsewhere or where you have paid
for the flight by credit card and can claim a refund from
credit card provider, if you have this will be deducted
from your claim.
2. your scheduled airline being in administration or, in the
USA and Canada, in Chapter 11 at the time of taking out
your policy.
3. delays or closures on the motorway unless you obtain
confirmation from the police/motoring authorities to
confirm a major accident.
4. delays caused by the accident or breakdown affecting
the vehicle in which you were travelling in unless you
have obtained confirmation of the delay from the
authority that you contacted.
5. the delay of your flight, sea crossing, coach or train
departure if you did not check in before the intended
departure time.
6. any claims arising from withdrawal of service
temporarily or otherwise.
If you need to make a claim:
Download a claim form at
www.imglobal.com/member/assistance/claims or call +44
(0)2920 474 138 or write to Travel Claims Team, 3rd Floor,
Fitzalan House, Fitzalan Court, Cardiff CF24 0EL.
Our claims handlers will need to see:
• Completed claim form
• Booking invoice(s) for each part of the trip
• Travel delay: Carrier's letter showing the scheduled
and actual departure dates and times, and exact
reason for the delay
• Missed departure: Evidence of the mechanical failure,
or accident, of the vehicle you’re travelling in, or of the
14
delay to public transport being used, to get you to
your international departure point
• Missed departure: Invoices, bank / card statements
and receipts for additional costs you incurred
• Details of other insurance, or third party responsible, if
applicable