Emergency medical and repatriation expenses
(This is not private medical insurance)
There is no cover for any expenses incurred in private
medical facilities if we have confirmed medically capable
public facilities are/were available. We reserve the right to
organise a transfer from a private medical facility to a
public medical facility where medically appropriate.
We will pay for trips outside your home country up to the
amount shown in the schedule of cover OR up to £1,000 for
trips inside your home country for necessary emergency
expenses (that are payable within six (6) months of the
event that causes the claim resulting from your death,
injury, or illness) for:
1. fees or charges for necessary emergency treatment, to
be paid outside your home country for medical,
surgical, hospital, nursing home or nursing services.
2. additional travel, accommodation, and repatriation
costs to be made for, or by, you and for any one other
person who is required for medical reasons to stay with
you, or a child who requires an escort to travel to you
from your home country or to travel with you, where it
is deemed medically necessary following emergency
treatment.
3. local funeral expenses abroad limited to the amount
shown in the schedule of cover following your death
outside your home country.
4. the cost of returning your ashes home or the return of
your body to your home in the United Kingdom,
Channel Islands, Isle of Man or BFPO following your
death outside your home country.
Hospital Benefit
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of
cover for:
each full 24-hour period that you are in a public hospital
abroad as an in-patient during the period of the trip in
addition to the fees and charges.

15
Emergency Dental Treatment
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of
cover for:
emergency dental treatment only to treat sudden pain
limited to the amount shown in the schedule of cover.
Loss of Medication
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of
cover for:
the necessary cost of replacing essential medication lost or
stolen during your trip.
Provided you are not claiming for:
1. any costs where you have not paid your excess (or
accepted it will be deducted from any settlement).
2. any costs as a result of having to isolate due to an
infectious disease where you have not had any
emergency treatment.
3. treatment due to, or a complication of, an existing
medical condition unless we have agreed cover in
writing and any additional premium has been paid.
4. any sums which can be recovered by you, and which are
covered under any National Insurance Scheme or
Reciprocal Health Arrangement
5. any elective or pre-arranged treatment or any routine
non-emergency tests or treatment, this includes
complications as a result of elective, pre-arranged or
cosmetic treatment received whilst abroad.
6. costs of private treatment unless our 24/7 assistance
team has agreed, and capable public facilities are not
available.
7. replenishment of any medication you were using at the
start of the trip or follow up treatment for any condition
you had at the start of your trip.
8. the cost of early repatriation when medical treatment
of a standard acceptable by our 24/7 assistance team is
available locally.
9. the cost associated with the diversion of an aircraft due
to your death, injury, or illness.
10. repairs to or for artificial limbs or hearing aids.
11. the cost of diagnostic tests or treatment for any existing
condition other than that which has caused the
immediate emergency.
12. any extra costs for single/private accommodation in a
hospital or nursing home.
13. any costs involving the use of precious metals for any
dental treatment.
14. the provision of dentures, crowns, or veneers.
15. any treatment or work which could wait until your
return home.
Denial of boarding extension (Overseas return quarantine)
Accommodation Expenses
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of
cover for:
additional accommodation (of a standard no greater than
your original booking) for each full 24-hour period that you
are unable to return to your home country if you were
denied boarding on the return journey of your trip due to
having or being suspected of having an infectious disease.
Return Transport
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of
cover for:
the cost of return transportation to your home country (of a
standard no greater than the class of journey and in the
same mode of transport you paid for on your outbound
journey) at the earliest possible date based on medical or
local authority advice if you were denied boarding on the
return journey of your trip due to having or being suspected
of having an infectious disease.
Provided:
1. you have paid your excess or accepted it will be
deducted from any settlement.
2. your airline company, rail operator, coach operator,
ferry or cruise operator has not made arrangements to
revalidate your original ticket, but you chose not to
accept it.
3. you are not claiming for any costs that you are able to
retrieve or are covered by your package holiday
provider.
4. you did not choose against undertaking your return
journey.
5. you were denied boarding by your airline company, rail
operator, coach operator, ferry, or cruise operator.
6. you are not asking us to pay for travel to anywhere
other than your home country.
7. you are not claiming for any costs relating to food or
drink.
8. you do not ask us to pay for a loss that is insured or
guaranteed by any other existing protection,
specifically Package Travel Regulations, ATOL, Air
Passenger Rights, (including Civil Aviation Authority
requirements), or ABTA protection, or any other
specific legislation for transport or travel providers, or
from your credit card provider under s75 Consumer
Credit Act, or any other specific legislation for transport
or travel providers.
9. you do not ask us to pay for any costs already accepted
or offered by your transport and/or accommodation
provider.
10. you do not ask us to pay for any costs already accepted
or offered by your transport and/or accommodation
provider.
11. you can provide us with a written report from the
airline company, rail operator, coach operator, ferry or
cruise operator confirming the refusal of boarding.
12. you are not claiming for costs associated with you
attempting to return prior to the recommended return
date following your initial refusal of boarding.
13. you are not claiming for costs of any travelling
companion other than.
• your children who are under 18 years of age, or
• a legal dependant who is unable to travel without
you who is insured on this policy and where there is
no responsible adult to supervise them, until you
are able to return to your home country.
14. you must provide us with any information or
documentation we may reasonably require enabling us
to verify and process your claim.

16
There is no cover provided under this section for anything
mentioned in the General conditions and exclusions
applying to all sections of cover in this policy. Additionally,
no cover is provided under this section for:
1. any claim which does not directly relate to an accident
or illness suffered during your trip
2. any costs which the 24/7 assistance team has not
authorised
3. any claim for home help or nanny If you needed a home
help or a registered nanny before you began your trip
4. For denied boarding the carrier's confirmation of the
original scheduled departure dates and times, and exact
reason for denying your boarding.
If you need to claim:
Download a claim form at
www.imglobal.com/member/assistance/claims or call +44
(0)2920 474 138 or write to Travel Claims Team, 3rd Floor,
Fitzalan House, Fitzalan Court, Cardiff CF24 0EL.
Our claims handlers will need to see:
• Completed medical expenses claim form
• Booking invoice(s) for the trip
• Details of the additional medical expenses requested
• Evidence to support the medical need to incur
additional medical examination cost, employing help,
undergoing cosmetic surgery etc (such as medical
report)
• Invoices, bank / card statements and receipts for selfpaid costs
• Details of other insurance, or third party responsible, if
applicable
This is a travel insurance policy and not private medical
insurance. This means there is no cover for any expenses
incurred in private medical facilities if we have confirmed
medically capable public facilities are/were available.
We reserve the right to organise a transfer from a private
medical facility to a public medical facility where medically
appropriate.
If you become unwell, or sustain a minor injury whilst
abroad, please call our 24/7 assistance team first on +44
(0)2920 474 133 so that they can help you find appropriate
treatment locally. However, you should call the local
emergency services immediately, 112 in Europe, 911 in the
USA and Canada or the local equivalent to 999, if you have
any symptoms that might require emergency treatment
including, but not limited to, difficulty breathing, chest pain,
seizure (fit) activity, decreased level of consciousness, heavy
bleeding, sudden swelling of the face and lips, signs of a
stroke or any other life-threatening condition. 