Cancellation
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of
cover for your portion of:
1. pre-paid excursions booked before you go on your trip
up to a maximum £250
2. loss of pre-paid accommodation
3. pre-paid foreign car hire; and
4. pre-paid transport charges
that you have paid or agreed to pay and that you cannot
recover from any other source if you were forced to cancel
your trip because the following unexpectedly happened
before you left home and which you could not have been
expected to foresee or avoid:
1. you, anyone named on this insurance, a travel
companion, a close relative, a close business associate,
or the person you were going to stay with became ill,
was injured, or died (including an infectious disease
within 14 days of your trip starting).
2. you, anyone named on this insurance, or a household
member had to isolate at home due to an infectious
disease.
3. your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire,
storm, or flood.
4. you, or a travel companion were called for jury service
or required as a witness in a court of law.
5. you, or a travel companion were made redundant.
6. you, or a travel companion had leave withdrawn and
are in the armed forces (including reserves and
territorial), emergency services, medical or nursing
professions (in the public sector) or senior employees of
the government.
7. as a result of fire, earthquake, storm, flood, riot or civil
unrest; the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development
Office (FCDO) or comparable prohibitive regulations by
the government of the country you were due to visit
and within fifty (50) miles of your chosen destination
changes the travel advice to advise against all or all but
essential travel.
8. your passport, or the passport of a travel companion,
being stolen during the seven (7) days before your
booked departure.
9. you become pregnant after buying this policy, and you
will be less than 8 weeks (or 16 weeks if more than one
baby) pregnant before the due delivery date at the start
of, or during, your trip. Or your doctor advises that you
are not fit to travel because you are suffering from
Complications of Pregnancy and Childbirth.
Provided:
1. you have paid your excess or accepted it will be
deducted from any settlement
2. you are not claiming due to a known event
3. you are able to provide evidence from a medical
professional confirming your illness. In respect of
infectious disease claims, we will require either a
registered result of a positive pcr test or a medical
certificate from your doctor.
4. you can provide evidence that someone in your
household has to isolate, and you have been instructed
to do so as well due to an infectious disease.
5. you did not cancel your trip because:
• you simply did not want to travel or had a fear of
travelling.
• you could no longer afford to pay for the trip.
• of an existing medical condition which you have
not told us about and that we have not agreed to
cover in writing.
• of a normal pregnancy, without any
accompanying bodily injury, illness, disease, or
complication. Normal Childbirth would not
constitute an unforeseen event. Please see
pregnancy under Health/existing medical
conditions of this policy.
• of any epidemic, or pandemic as declared by the
World Health Organisation (WHO).
• of Foreign, Commonwealth and Development
Office (FCDO), government or local authority
advice relating to any infectious disease.
6. you, or a travel companion did obtain the required
travel documents, or the recommended inoculations or
vaccinations by the UK government for the area you are
travelling to.
7. you have reported the theft of your passport to the
relevant authority and have written proof of the theft.
8. you, or a travel companion are not the defendant in a
court of law.
9. you did obtain prior authority to take leave, or your
leave was not cancelled on disciplinary grounds.
10. you do not ask us to pay for a loss that is insured or
guaranteed by any other existing protection, specifically
the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements
Regulations 2018, Air Passenger Rights, ATOL (including
Civil Aviation Authority requirements), or ABTA
protection, or from your credit card provider under s75
Consumer Credit Act, or any other specific legislation for
transport or travel providers.
11. you do not ask us to pay for any costs already accepted
or offered by your transport and/or accommodation
provider, even if this is a credit note or alternative travel
arrangements.
12. you are able to prove your financial loss.
13. you did not purchase insurance with the intention or
likelihood of claiming.
14. your claim is not relating to course charges or tuition
fees unless agreed in writing by us.
15. you must provide us with any information or
documentation we require enabling us to verify and
process your claim.
16. your trip falls within the start and end date of the
period of insurance as shown on the Schedule of cover.
There is no cover provided under this section for anything
mentioned in the General conditions and exclusions
applying to all sections of cover in this policy
If you need to claim:
Download a claim form at
www.imglobal.com/member/assistance/claims or call +44
(0)2920 474 138 or write to Travel Claims Team, 3rd Floor,
Fitzalan House, Fitzalan Court, Cardiff CF24 0EL.
Our claims handlers will need to see:
• Completed cancellation claim form.
• Booking invoice(s) for each part of the trip.
• Evidence to support the reason for your cancellation,
including the medical certificate in your claim form
completed and stamped by the General Practitioner of
the person(s) whose illness, injury or death has led to

12
• the cancellation (if applicable).
• Proof of your payment for each part of the trip (bank /
card statements).
• Cancellation invoice(s) for each part of the trip.
• Details of other insurance, or third party responsible, if
applicable.
You must inform your travel agent, tour operator, event or
flight company as soon as you are aware you need to cancel
and request a cancellation invoice.