Cancellation or curtailment charges
We will pay you up to £1,000 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and
accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges which you have
paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any reasonable additional travel
expenses incurred if cancellation of the trip or one-way trip is necessary and unavoidable as a result of
any of the following events:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a. You.
b. Any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with.
c. Any person who you have arranged to stay with.
d. Your close relative.
e. Your close business associate.
2. Personal quarantine preventing you from leaving your home in your country of residence.
3. Jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a Court of Law (other than in an advisory or
professional capacity) of you or your travelling companion(s).
4. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with (which
qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy payment legislation, and at the
time of booking the trip or one-way trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made
redundant).
5. Compulsory quarantine upon arrival at your destination where such quarantine is ordered by the
government or local authority in your destination country, but not including where such orders are
issued as a result of a pandemic.
6. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a member of the
Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or employees of a
Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled or are called up for
operational reasons, provided that the cancellation could not reasonably have been expected at the
time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip or one-way trip.
7. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at home due to serious damage to your home
caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles,
malicious people or theft.
8. You, having your passport or visa stolen in a burglary within 14 days of your scheduled departure
date and you being unable to obtain a replacement in time for your scheduled departure.
9. The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) or other
regulatory authority in a country in which you are travelling advising against all travel or all but
essential travel to the area you are travelling to/in, but not including where advice is issued due to
a pandemic or regional quarantine, providing the advice came into force after you purchased this
insurance or booked the trip (whichever is the later) and was within 21 days of your departure date.
What is covered
26
Curtailment
We will pay you up to £1,000 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and
accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges which you have
paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any reasonable additional travel
expenses incurred if the trip is curtailed before completion as a result of any of the following events:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a. You.
b. Any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with.
c. Any person who you have arranged to stay with.
d. Your close relative.
e. Your close business associate.
2. Compulsory quarantine whilst at your destination.
3. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a member of the
Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or employees of a
Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled or are called up for.
operational reasons, provided that the curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the
time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip or One-way trip.
4. The Police or other authorities requesting you return to your home due to serious damage to your
home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road
vehicles, malicious people or theft.
5. The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) or other
regulatory authority in the country you are in recommending evacuation from the country or
specific area you have travelled to providing the advice came into force after you left your home
area to commence the trip.
Important notes
If the same costs, charges or expenses are covered under Cancellation and Curtailment, you can only
claim for these under one benefit for the same event.
Special conditions relating to claims
1. You must get (at your own expense) a medical certificate from a medical practitioner and the prior
approval of the Emergency Assistance Service to confirm the necessity to return home, prior to
curtailment of the trip due to death, bodily injury, illness, disease or complications of pregnancy.
2. If you fail to notify the travel agent, tour operator or provider of transport or accommodation as soon as
you find out it is necessary to cancel the trip or one-way trip, the amount we will pay will be limited to the
cancellation charges that would have otherwise applied.
3. If you cancel the trip or one-way trip due to:
a. Stress, anxiety, depression or any other mental or nervous disorder that you are suffering from you
must provide (at your own expense) a medical certificate from either a registered mental health
professional if you are under the care of Community Mental Health Team or if not, a consultant
specialising in the relevant field.
b. Any other bodily injury, illness, disease or complications of pregnancy, you must provide (at your
own expense) a medical certificate from a medical practitioner stating that this necessarily and
reasonably prevented you from travelling. We need the medical certificate completed as soon as you
find out it is necessary to cancel the trip, as any delay in seeing a medical practitioner could mean
that your symptoms are no longer present. If you cannot get an immediate appointment, please
make one for as early as possible and keep all details of this to help substantiate your claim.
27
1. Any claim if you are unable to comply with the Important conditions relating to health (on page 17).
2. The first £125 of each and every claim, per incident claimed for, under this section by each insured
person but limited to £250 in all if family cover or single parent cover applies.
3. The cost of your unused original tickets where the Emergency Assistance Service or we have
arranged and paid for you to come home following curtailment of the trip.
4. The cost of Air Passenger Duty (APD) whether irrecoverable or not.
5. Any claims arising directly or indirectly from:
a. Redundancy caused by or resulting from misconduct leading to dismissal or resignation or
voluntary redundancy, or where you received a warning or notification of redundancy before
you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip or one-way trip.
b. Circumstances known to you before you purchased your policy or at the time of booking any
trip or one-way trip which could reasonably have been expected to lead to cancellation or
curtailment of the trip or one-way trip.
c. Complications of pregnancy which:
i. For cancellation or rebooking - first arise before booking or paying for the trip,
whichever is later.
ii. For curtailment - first arise before departing on your trip.
Normal pregnancy or childbirth, or travelling when your medical practitioner has
recorded your pregnancy as high risk or being at a heightened risk of premature birth,
would not constitute an unforeseen event.
6. Travel tickets paid for using any airline mileage or supermarket reward scheme, (for example Avios
formally known as Air Miles), unless evidence of specific monetary value can be provided.
7. Accommodation costs paid for using any Timeshare, Holiday Property Bond or other holiday points
scheme.
8. Any claim where you cannot travel or choose not to travel because the Foreign, Commonwealth and
Development Office (FCDO) (or any other equivalent government body in another country) advises
against travel due to a pandemic.
9. Any claim due to a regional quarantine.
10. Any claim for quarantine when quarantine is upon the return to the United Kingdom/country of
residence.
11. Anything mentioned in What is not covered - applicable to all sections of the policy.
What is not covered
Claims evidence
We will require (at your own expense) the following evidence where relevant:
• A medical certificate from the treating medical practitioner (or in the case of stress, anxiety, depression
or any other mental or nervous disorder either a registered mental health professional if you are under the
care of a Community Mental Health Team or if not, a consultant specialising in the relevant field) explaining
why it was necessary for you to cancel or curtail the trip or one-way trip.
• In the case of death causing cancellation or curtailment of the trip or one-way trip, the original death
certificate.
• Booking confirmation together with a cancellation invoice from your travel agent, tour operator or provider
of transport/accommodation.
• In the case of curtailment claims, written details from your travel agent, tour operator or provider of
transport/accommodation of the separate costs of transport, accommodation and other pre-paid costs or
charges that made up the total cost of the trip.
28
To make a claim under this section
For curtailment claims +44 (0)203 126 4042 or for other claims 0330 024 8315
• Your unused travel tickets.
• Receipts or bills for any costs, charges or expenses claimed for.
• In the case of compulsory quarantine, a letter from the relevant authority or the treating medical
practitioner.
• In the case of jury service or witness attendance, the court summons.
• The letter of redundancy for redundancy claims.
• A copy of the advice against all travel or all but essential travel issued by the Foreign, Commonwealth and
Development Office (FCDO).
• A letter from the commanding officer concerned, confirming cancellation of authorised leave or call up for
operational reasons.
• In the case of serious damage to your home a report from the Police or relevant authority.
• Any other relevant information relating to your claim under this section that we may ask you for.