Personal money, passport and documents
What is covered
1. We will pay you up to the amounts shown below for the accidental loss of, theft of or damage to
personal money and documents (including the unused portion of passports, visas and driving
licences). We will also cover foreign currency during the 72 hours immediately before your departure
on the outward journey.
The maximum we will pay for the following items is:
a. £200 for bank notes, currency notes and coins.
b. £50 for bank notes, currency notes and coins, if you are under the age of 16.
c. £100 for all other personal money and documents (including the cost of the emergency
replacement or temporary passport or visa obtained outside your home area and the value of
the unused portion of your passport, visa or driving licence).
2. We will pay you up to £400 for reasonable additional travel and accommodation expenses
necessarily incurred outside your home area to obtain a replacement of your passport or visa
which has been lost, stolen or destroyed outside your home area.
Special conditions relating to claims
1. You must report to the local Police in the country where the incident occurred within 24 hours of discovery
or as soon as possible after that and get (at your own expense) a written report of the loss, theft or
attempted theft of all personal money, passports or documents.
2. If personal money or passports are lost, stolen or damaged while in the care of a hotel or your
accommodation provider you must report details of the loss, theft or damage to them in writing and get (at
your own expense) written confirmation. Keep all travel tickets and tags for submission if a claim is to be
made under this policy.
3. If documents are lost, stolen or damaged while in the care of a carrier, transport company, authority, hotel
or your accommodation provider you must report details of the loss, theft or damage to them in writing
and get (at your own expense) written confirmation.
4. If documents are lost, stolen or damaged whilst in the care of an airline you must:
a. Give formal written notice of the claim to the airline within the time limit set out in their conditions of
carriage (please keep a copy).
b. Keep all travel tickets and tags for submission to us if you are going to make a claim under this policy.
5. You must provide (at your own expense) an original receipt or proof of ownership for items lost, stolen or
damaged to help you to substantiate your claim.
What is not covered
1. The first £125 of each and every claim, per incident claimed for, under this section by each insured
person under subsection 1; of What is covered, but limited to £250 in all if family cover or single
parent cover applies.
2. Loss, theft of or damage to personal money or your passport or visa if left unattended at any time
(including in a vehicle, in checked in luggage or while in the custody of a carrier, tour operator or
public transport operator) unless deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in your locked
accommodation.
3. Loss, theft of or damage to travellers’ cheques if you have not complied with the issuer’s conditions
or where the issuer provides a replacement service.
4. Loss or damage due to delay, confiscation or detention by customs or any other authority.
5. Loss or damage due to depreciation (loss in value), variations in exchange rates or shortages due to
error or omission.
6. Any additional travel and accommodation expenses incurred because you were unable to board the
public transport on which you were booked to return to the United Kingdom or continue your trip
as a result of the accidental loss of, theft of or damage to your passport and/or visa.
7. Business money.
8. Anything mentioned in What is not covered - applicable to all sections of the policy.
Claims evidence
We will require (at your own expense) the following evidence where relevant:
• A Police report from the local Police in the country where the incident occurred for all loss, theft or
attempted theft.
• A letter from your tour operator’s representative, hotel or accommodation provider where appropriate.
• All travel tickets and tags for submission.
• Original receipts, proof of ownership or valuations for items lost, stolen or damaged.
• Receipts or bills or proof of purchase for any transport and accommodation expenses claimed for.
• Receipt for all currency and travellers cheques transactions.
• Any other relevant information relating to your claim under this section that we may ask you for. 
To make a claim under this section
To make a claim under this section please call: 0330 024 8315