Gadget cover
Important information
The Gadget cover option meets the demands and needs of those who wish to insure their gadget(s)
during their trip/s against theft, accidental damage, breakdown, and accidental loss.
Your gadget(s) must be in good condition and full working order prior to taking out this policy. If there
is evidence that the damage, theft, or accidental loss occurred prior to the policy start date your
claim will be refused.
Introduction
This policy only covers your gadget(s) when you are on an insured trip and when in the care of you or a
member of your immediate family.
Definitions
Special additional definitions applicable to Gadget cover.
The words and phrases defined below have the same meaning wherever they appear in bold.
Accessories
– Means items such as but not limited to, chargers, protective cases, headphones, and hands-free
devices, below the value of £150, that are used in conjunction with your insured gadget(s) but excludes
SIM cards and wearables. Evidence of ownership for accessories will need to be provided at point of
claim.
Accidental loss/accidentally lost
 - Means that your gadget(s) have been accidentally left by you in a location and you are permanently
deprived of their use.
Accidental Damage
– Means any damage, including damage caused by fire and/or liquid damage, caused to your gadget
which was not deliberately caused by you or any other person.
Accommodation
- Means your hotel, hotel resort, or other main residence where you are staying during your trip.
Claims Administrators
 – Means Davies Group.
Criteria
– Means we can only insure your gadget(s) if you are able to provide evidence of ownership, and if
they are:
1. Purchased by you as new in the UK, or;
2. Purchased by you as refurbished in the UK, as long as they were purchased with a 12 month
warranty or;
3. Gifted to you as long as you are able to provide a Gift receipt, and;
4. Are not more than 4 years old at the time this policy is initially purchased, and;
5. Are in your possession and in good working condition (not accidentally damaged) and;
6. Have not previously been repaired using non-manufacturer parts.
Drone
- Means un-manned aerial vehicles.
Evidence of ownership
- Means a document to evidence that the gadget(s) you are claiming for belong to you. This can be a
copy of the till receipt, delivery note, gift receipt or, if the gadget is a mobile phone, confirmation from
your Network Provider that the mobile phone has been used by you.
51
Gadget(s)
– Means the portable electronic gadget(s) that meet the criteria, are insured when Gadget cover is
indicated on the schedule. Gadget(s) include: Mobile Phones, iPhones, iPads, Tablets, Cameras, Go Pros,
Smartwatches and Laptops.
Hotel Resort
– Means a hotel which contains full sized luxury facilities with full-service accommodation and
amenities, on-site.
Immediate family
– Means your mother, father, son, daughter, spouse, or domestic partner who resides with you at your
home.
Laptop
– Means a portable computer suitable for use whilst travelling.
 Precautions
– Means all measures that would be deemed appropriate to expect a person to take in circumstances to
prevent accidental loss, accidental damage, or theft of your gadget(s).
Proof of usage
– Means evidence that your gadget(s) have been in use since policy inception. Where the gadget is a
mobile phone, this information can be obtained from your Network Provider. For other gadget(s), in the
event of an accidental damage claim this can be verified when the gadget(s) are sent to our repairers
for inspection.
Schedule
– Means the document provided to you following the purchase of this policy which includes confirmation
that Gadget cover is included.
Theft/Stolen
- Means the unauthorised dishonest appropriation of your gadgets, by another person with the
intention of permanently depriving you of them.
Unattended
– Means not within your sight at all times or out of your arms-length reach when away from your
accommodation.
You/Your(s)/Yourself/Insured person(s)
- Means each person travelling on a trip whose name appears on the schedule and where the correct
level of premium has been paid for Gadget cover. This will also mean the person who owns the
gadget(s).
What is covered
We will cover you for up to £1,000 in total for your gadget(s) on a trip due to:
A. Accidental Damage / Malicious Damage
We will arrange a repair if your gadget(s) are damaged as the result of an accident or malicious damage
whilst on your trip. If your gadget(s) cannot be economically repaired, they will be replaced.
B. Theft
If your gadget(s) are stolen whilst on your trip, we will replace them. Where only a part or parts of your
gadget have been stolen, we will only replace that part or those specific parts.
C. Accidental Loss
If you suffer accidental loss or unintentional loss of your gadget(s), whilst on your trip, we will replace
them.
D. Breakdown
If your gadget(s) suffer electrical breakdown whilst on your trip which occurs outside of the
manufacturer’s guarantee period, we will repair them. If your gadget(s) cannot be economically
repaired, they will be replaced. This cover is not available on laptops.    
E. Unauthorised Call/Data Use
If your mobile phone is accidently lost or stolen whilst on your trip and is used fraudulently, and your
claim is covered by your policy, we will reimburse you for the costs upon receipt of your itemised bill
up to a maximum value of £10,000 for any one claim.. This includes calls, messages, downloads, and
data made / used from the time it was accidentally lost or stolen up to a maximum of 24 hours from
discovery of the incident.
F. Liquid Damage
If your gadget(s) are damaged as a result of accidentally coming into contact with any liquid whilst on
your trip, we will repair them. If they cannot be repaired, we will replace them.
G. Accessories
If your claim for your gadget(s) is approved, we will replace any accessories that were accidentally
lost, stolen, or suffered accidental damage at the same time as your gadget(s) up to a maximum value
of £150.
If we replace your gadget(s) with a different make or model and this means that you can no longer use
your existing accessories, we will replace them too, up to a maximum value of £150.
What is not covered
1. Theft:
• from any motor vehicle where you or someone acting on your behalf is not in the vehicle, unless
the gadget(s) have been concealed in a locked boot, closed glove compartment or other closed
internal compartment and all the vehicle’s windows and doors have been closed and locked and
all security systems have been activated. A copy of the repairer’s account for damage in gaining
entry to the locked vehicle must be supplied with any claim;
• from any building or premises (including your accommodation) unless the theft involves force
in gaining entry to or exit from the building or premises, resulting in damage to the building or
premises. A copy of the repairer’s account for such damage must be supplied with any claim;
• when away from your accommodation, or when in your accommodation with invited guests
or other people, unless the gadget(s) are concealed on or about your person when not in use, or
stored in a locked room or secured receptacle (such as a locked safe, locked locker or closed desk
drawer);
• where your gadget(s) were in the possession of a third party (other than a member of your
immediate family) at the time of the event giving rise to a claim under this cover;
• where the gadget(s) have been left unattended when they are away from your accommodation
(including being in luggage during transit);
• where all available precautions have not been taken to prevent theft;
2. Loss or damage caused by:
• you deliberately damaging, intentionally leaving or neglecting your gadget(s);
• you not following the manufacturer’s instructions;
• the use of non-manufacturer approved accessories;
3. Repair or other costs for:
• routine servicing, inspection, maintenance or cleaning;
• loss caused by a manufacturer’s defect or recall of the gadget(s);
• repairs carried out by persons not authorised by us;
• liquid damage to your gadget(s) where the event causing the need to claim involved you taking
your gadget(s) on a boat, other water vessels, or whilst taking part in water activities;   
• wear and tear or gradual deterioration of performance;
• cosmetic damage of any kind, including scratches, dents and other visible defects that do not
affect safety or performance;
4. The mechanical breakdown of a laptop computer.
5. Any kind of damage whatsoever unless the damaged gadget(s) are provided for repair.
6. Any loss of a SIM (subscriber identity module) card.
7. Loss, damage or theft of a drone.
8. Any expense incurred as a result of not being able to use your gadget(s), or any loss other than the
repair or replacement costs of your gadget(s) unless relating to unauthorised call/data use for your
mobile phone up to the maximum value of £10,000.
9. The policy excess - if you make a claim, the first £50 of each and every claim, per incident claimed
for, under this section by each insured person. This excess must be paid to us before your claim can
be approved.
10. Loss of or damage to accessories that were not attached to your gadget(s) at the time of the
incident.
11. Any claim for your gadget(s) where proof of usage cannot be provided or evidenced.
12. Any claim for accidental loss where the circumstances of the loss cannot be clearly identified, i.e.
where you are unable to confirm the time and place you last had your gadget(s).
13. Reconnection costs or subscription fees of any kind.
14. Any loss of or damage to information or data or software contained in or stored on your gadget(s)
whether arising as a result of a claim paid by this insurance or otherwise.
15. Liability of any nature arising from ownership or use of your gadget(s), including any illness or injury
resulting from such ownership or use.
16. Value Added Tax (VAT) where you are registered with HM Revenue and Customs for VAT.
17. We will not provide cover, pay any claim, or provide any benefit if doing so would expose us to any
sanction, prohibition, or restriction.
Claim settlement
1. The intention of this policy section is to put you back in the same position as immediately prior to the
accidental loss, theft, or accidental damage. It is not a replacement as new policy. If your gadget(s)
cannot be replaced with identical gadget(s) of the same age and condition, we will replace them with
ones of comparable specification or the equivalent value taking into account the age and condition of the
original gadget(s). We cannot guarantee that the replacement gadget(s) will be the same colour as the
original items.
2. Repairs will take place on your return to your home in the UK and will be carried out using readily
available parts. Where possible we will use original parts but, in some cases, unbranded parts may be
used. If any repairs authorised by us under this policy invalidate your manufacturer’s warranty, we will
repair or replace your gadget(s) for the remaining period of your manufacturer’s warranty in line with
your manufacturer’s warranty terms and conditions.
3. All blocks must be removed from your gadget(s) before being sent for repair. This includes any personal
pin locks or operator specific security blocks, including Find My iPhone. Failure to do so will result in your
claim being delayed, and/or your gadget(s) being returned to you.
Conditions and limitations
1. Gadget cover only provides insurance protection for your gadget(s) purchased in the UK. Cover
automatically extends to include use of your gadget(s) whilst on a trip covered by this policy and are
subject to any repairs being carried out in the UK by repairers approved by us.
54
2. Your gadget(s) must not be more than 4 years old, must be purchased in the UK as new, or if refurbished,
purchased with a 12-month warranty, and you must be able to provide evidence of ownership when
it is requested. Evidence of ownership should include the make, model and IMEI/serial number of the
gadget(s) and must be in your name or you must be in possession of a gift receipt.
3. You must provide us with any receipts, documents, or evidence of ownership, that it is reasonable for us
to request.
4. You must take all available precautions to prevent any accidental loss, theft, or accidental damage.
5. Cover excludes costs or payments recoverable from any party, under the terms of any other contract,
guarantee, warranty, or insurance.
Claims procedure - Gadget cover 
1. You must:
• notify the claim administrators using the claim notification portal at https://gadgetclaimsAXA.daviesgroup.com, as soon as possible but ideally within 48 hours of your return to the UK;
• report the theft or accidental loss of any gadget(s), within 24 hours of discovery to your Airtime
Provider and blacklist your handset;
• report the theft or accidental loss of any gadget(s) to the Police within 48 hours of discovery and
obtain a crime reference number in support of a theft claim and a lost property number in support of
an accidental loss claim;
Please note any delay in reporting an incident to the claim administrators, your Airtime Provider or
the Police may invalidate your right to claim under the policy.
• provide us with details of the claim and any other contract, guarantee, warranty, or insurance that may
apply to the accidental loss, theft, or accidental damage but not limited to household insurance.
Where appropriate a rateable proportion of the claim may be recovered direct from these Insurers; and
2. If we replace your gadget(s) the damaged, lost or stolen item becomes our property. If it is returned or
found, you must notify us and send it to us if we ask you to.