Personal liability
What is covered
We will pay up to £2,000,000 (including legal costs and expenses) against any amount you become
legally liable to pay as compensation for any claim or series of claims arising from any one event or
source of original cause for accidental:
1. Bodily injury, death, illness or disease to any person who is not in your employment or who is not a
close relative or persons residing with you but not paying for their accommodation.
2. Loss of or damage to property that does not belong to and is neither in the charge of or under the
control of you, a close relative and/or anyone in your employment other than any temporary
holiday accommodation occupied (but not owned) by you.
Special conditions relating to claims
1. You must give us written notice of any incident, which may result in a claim as soon as possible.
2. You must send us every court claim form, summons, letter of claim or other document as soon as you
receive it.
3. You must not admit any liability or pay, offer to pay, promise to pay or negotiate any claim without our
permission in writing.
4. We will be entitled to take over and carry out in your name the defence of any claims for compensation
or damages or otherwise against any third party. We will have full discretion in the conduct of any
negotiation or proceedings or in the settlement of any claim and you will give us all necessary information
and assistance which we may require.
5. If you die, your legal representative(s) will have the protection of this cover as long as they comply with the
terms and conditions outlined in this policy
What is not covered
1. The first £200 of each and every claim, arising from the same incident claimed for under this section
in relation to any temporary holiday accommodation occupied by you.
2. Compensation or legal costs arising directly or indirectly from:
a. Liability which has been assumed by you under agreement (such as a hire agreement) unless
the liability would have existed without the agreement.
b. Pursuit of any business, trade, profession or occupation or the supply of goods or services.
c. Ownership, possession or use of mechanically propelled vehicles, aircraft or watercraft (other
than surfboards or manually propelled rowing boats, punts or canoes).
d. The transmission of any contagious or infectious disease or virus.
3. Anything mentioned in What is not covered - applicable to all sections of the policy.
Claims evidence
We will require (at your own expense) the following evidence where relevant:
• Full details in writing of any incident.
• Any court claim form, summons, letter of claim or other document must be sent to us as soon as you
receive it.
• Any other relevant information relating to your claim under this section that we may ask you for.
To make a claim under this section
To make a claim under this section please call: 0330 024 8315