Hospital benefit/New Zealand disability benefit
We will pay you £30 for every complete 24 hours you have to stay in hospital as an inpatient or are
confined to your accommodation due to your compulsory quarantine or on the orders of a medical
practitioner outside your home area, up to a maximum of £2,000 as a result of bodily injury,
illness or disease you sustain.
We will pay the amount above in addition to any amount payable under Section B – Emergency
medical and other expenses. This payment is meant to help you pay for additional expenses such as
taxi fares and phone calls incurred by your visitors during your stay in hospital.
2. We will pay you the benefit of £200 per week if you sustain bodily injury as a result of a road traffic
accident while you are travelling in a hire car in New Zealand, which shall solely and independently of
any other cause, result in your temporary total disablement. 
If the same costs, charges or expenses are covered under Hospital benefit and New Zealand disability
benefit, you can only claim for these under one benefit for the same event.
You must tell the Emergency Assistance Service as soon as possible of any bodily injury, illness or disease
which necessitates your admittance to hospital as an inpatient, compulsory quarantine or confinement to
your accommodation on the orders of a medical practitioner.
2. Benefit under subsection 2. of What is covered is not payable to you:
a. For the first 7 days of such disablement or for more than 52 weeks from the date you sustain bodily
injury.
b. If you are able or may be able to carry out a substantial part of your gainful employment or gainful
occupation (whether on a full-time or part-time basis) or (where you are not gainfully occupied) if
you are not necessarily confined to a hospital, nursing home or similar establishment or to a private
residence.
3. Our medical practitioner may examine you as often as they consider necessary if you make a claim.
1. We will pay you £30 for every complete 24 hours you have to stay in hospital as an inpatient or are
confined to your accommodation due to your compulsory quarantine or on the orders of a medical
practitioner outside your home area, up to a maximum of £2,000 as a result of bodily injury,
illness or disease you sustain.
We will pay the amount above in addition to any amount payable under Section B – Emergency
medical and other expenses. This payment is meant to help you pay for additional expenses such as
taxi fares and phone calls incurred by your visitors during your stay in hospital.
2. We will pay you the benefit of £200 per week if you sustain bodily injury as a result of a road traffic
accident while you are travelling in a hire car in New Zealand, which shall solely and independently of
any other cause, result in your temporary total disablement.
What is covered
1. Any claim if you are unable to comply with the Important conditions relating to health (on page 17).
2. Any claims arising directly or indirectly from:
a. Any additional period of hospitalisation, compulsory quarantine or confinement to your
accommodation:
i. Relating to treatment or surgery, including exploratory tests, which are not directly
related to the bodily injury, illness or disease which necessitated your admittance
into hospital.
What is not covered
If the same costs, charges or expenses are covered under Hospital benefit and New Zealand disability
benefit, you can only claim for these under one benefit for the same event.
Claims evidence
We will require (at your own expense) the following evidence where relevant:
• Confirmation in writing from the hospital, relevant authority or the treating medical practitioner of the
dates when you were admitted and subsequently discharged from hospital, compulsory quarantine or
confinement to your accommodation.
• Any other relevant information relating to your claim under this section that we may ask you for.
To make a claim under this section
To make a claim under this section please call: 0330 024 8315
ii. Relating to treatment or services provided by a convalescent or nursing home or any
rehabilitation centre.
iii. Following your decision not to be repatriated after the date, when in the opinion of
the Emergency Assistance Service it is safe to do so.
b. Hospitalisation, compulsory quarantine or confinement to your accommodation:
i. Relating to any form of treatment or surgery which in the opinion of the Emergency
Assistance Service or us (based on information provided by the medical practitioner
in attendance), can be delayed reasonably until your return to your home area.
ii. Resulting from your failure to obtain any recommended vaccines, inoculations or
medications prior to your trip.
iii. Occurring in England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man or the
Channel Islands and relating to either private treatment or tests, surgery or other
treatment, the costs of which are funded by a Reciprocal Health Agreement (RHA)
between these countries and/or Islands, or are recoverable from the Health Authority
in your home area.
3. Anything mentioned in What is not covered - applicable to all sections of the policy.