Baggage
What is covered
1. We will pay you up to £1,000 for the accidental loss of, theft of or damage to baggage and
valuables. The amount payable in the event of a total loss, will be the value at today’s prices less a
deduction for wear tear and depreciation (loss of value), or we may replace, reinstate or repair the
lost or damaged baggage and/or valuables.
The maximum we will pay you for the following items is:
a. £200 for any one article, pair or set of articles.
b. £200 for the total for all valuables.
Special conditions relating to claims
1. You must report to the local Police in the country where the incident occurred within 24 hours of discovery,
or as soon as possible after that and get (at your own expense) a written report of the loss, theft or
attempted theft of all baggage and/or valuables.
2. If baggage and/or valuables are lost, stolen or damaged while in the care of a carrier, transport company,
authority, hotel or your accommodation provider you must report details of the loss, theft or damage to
them in writing and get (at your own expense) written confirmation.
3. If baggage is lost, stolen or damaged whilst in the care of an airline you must:
a. Get a Property Irregularity Report from the airline.
b. Give written notice of the claim to the airline within the time limit contained in their conditions of
carriage (please retain a copy).
c. Keep all travel tickets and tags for submission if you are going to make a claim under this policy.
4. You must provide (at your own expense) an original receipt or proof of ownership for items lost, stolen or
damaged to help you to substantiate your claim.
What is not covered
1. The first £125 of each and every claim, per incident claimed for, under this section by each insured
person but limited to £250 if family cover or single parent cover applies.
2. Loss, theft of, or damage to valuables left unattended at any time (including in a vehicle, in checked
in luggage or while in the custody of a carrier, tour operator or public transport operator) unless
deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in your locked accommodation.
3. Loss, theft of or damage to baggage contained in an unattended vehicle:
a. Overnight between 9 pm and 9 am (local time) or;
b. At any time between 9 am and 9 pm (local time) unless:
i. It is locked out of sight in a secure baggage area.
ii. Forcible and violent means have been used by an unauthorised person to gain entry
into the vehicle and evidence of such entry is available.
4. Loss or damage due to delay, confiscation or detention by customs or any other authority.
5. Loss, theft of or damage to mobile phones, unset precious stones, contact or corneal lenses, hearing
aids, dental or medical fittings, antiques, musical instruments, motor accessories, documents of
any kind, bonds, securities, perishable goods (such as foodstuffs), bicycles, ski equipment, Golf
equipment and damage to suitcases (unless the suitcases are entirely unusable as a result of one
single incidence of damage).
6. Loss or damage due to cracking, scratching, breakage of or damage to china, glass (other than glass
in watch faces, cameras, binoculars or telescopes), porcelain or other brittle or fragile articles unless
caused by fire, theft, or an accident to the aircraft, sea vessel, train or vehicle in which they are being
carried.
7. Loss or damage due to breakage of sports equipment or damage to sports clothing whilst in use.
8. Loss, theft of or damage to business equipment, business goods, samples, tools of trade and other
items used in connection with your business, trade, profession or occupation.
9. Loss or damage caused by wear and tear, depreciation (loss in value), atmospheric or climatic
conditions, moth, vermin, any process of cleaning repairing or restoring, mechanical or electrical
breakdown.
10. Anything mentioned in What is not covered - applicable to all sections of the policy.
Claims evidence
We will require (at your own expense) the following evidence where relevant:
• A Police report from the local Police in the country where the incident occurred for all loss, theft or
attempted theft.
• A Property Irregularity Report from the airline or a letter from the carrier where loss, theft or damage
occurred in their custody.
• A letter from your tour operator’s representative, hotel or accommodation provider where appropriate.
• All travel tickets and tags for submission.
• An original receipt, proof of ownership or valuations for items lost, stolen or damaged and for all items of
clothing, medication and toiletries replaced if your baggage is temporarily lost in transit for more than 12
hours.
• A letter from the carrier confirming the number of hours your baggage was delayed for.
• Repair report where applicable.
• Any other relevant information relating to your claim under this section that we may ask you for
To make a claim under this section please call: 0330 024 8315