Legal expenses and assistance
What is covered
We will pay up to £50,000 for legal costs to pursue a civil action for compensation, against someone else
who causes you bodily injury, illness or death.
Where there are two or more insured persons insured by this policy, then the maximum amount we will
pay for all such claims shall not exceed £100,000.
Special conditions relating to claims
1. We shall have complete control over the legal case through agents we nominate, by appointing agents of
our choice on your behalf with the expertise to pursue your claim.
2. You must follow our agent’s advice and provide any information and assistance required within a
reasonable timescale.
3. You must advise us of any offers of settlement made by the negligent third party and you must not accept
any such offer without our permission.
4. We may include a claim for our legal costs and other related expenses.
5. We may, at our own expense, take proceedings in your name to recover compensation from any third
party for any legal costs incurred under this policy. You must give us any assistance we require from you
and any amount recovered shall belong to us.
What is not covered
We shall not be liable for:
1. The first £125 of each and every claim, per incident claimed for, under this section by each insured
person but limited to £250 in all if family cover or single parent cover applies.
2. Any claim where in our opinion there is insufficient prospect of success in obtaining reasonable
compensation.
3. Legal costs and expenses incurred in pursuit of any claim against a travel agent, tour operator,
carrier, us, AXA Assistance or their agents, someone you were travelling with, a person related to
you, or another insured person.
4. Legal costs and expenses incurred prior to our written acceptance of the case.
5. Any claim where the legal costs and expenses are likely to be greater than the anticipated amount of
compensation.
6. Any claim where legal costs and expenses are variable depending on the outcome of the claim.
7. Legal costs and expenses incurred if an action is brought in more than one country.
8. Any claim where in our opinion the estimated amount of compensation payment is less than £1,000
for each insured person.
9. Travel, accommodation and incidental costs incurred to pursue a civil action for compensation.
10. The costs of any appeal.
11. Claims by you other than in your private capacity.
12. Anything mentioned in What is not covered - applicable to all sections of the policy.
Claims evidence
We will require (at your own expense) the following evidence where relevant:
• Relevant documentation and evidence to support your claim, including photographic evidence.
• Any other relevant information relating to your claim under this section that we may ask you for.
To make a claim under this section please call: 0330 024 8315