Emergency medical and other expenses
We will pay you up to £20,000,000 for the following expenses which are medically necessary to treat a
medical emergency either during a trip or for a one-way trip within the first 10 days of arriving at your
final destination, as a result of you suffering unforeseen bodily injury, complication of pregnancy,
illness, disease and/or compulsory quarantine:
1. Emergency medical, surgical, hospital, ambulance and nursing fees and charges incurred outside of
your home area.
2. Emergency dental treatment for the immediate relief of pain (to natural teeth only) up to a limit of
£1,000 incurred outside of your home area.
3. If you die:
a. Outside your home area the reasonable additional cost of funeral expenses abroad, plus the
reasonable cost of returning your ashes to your home, or the additional costs of returning
your body to your home.
b. Within your home area the reasonable additional cost of returning your ashes or body to your
home up to a maximum of £750.
4. Reasonable additional transport and/or accommodation expenses incurred, up to the standard of
your original booking (for example full or half board, all inclusive, bed and breakfast, self catering or
room only), if it is medically necessary for you to stay beyond your scheduled return date.
This includes, with the prior authorisation of the Emergency Assistance Service, reasonable
additional transport and/or accommodation expenses for a travelling companion, friend or close
relative to stay with you or travel to you from the United Kingdom or escort you. Also additional
travel expenses to return you to your home or a suitable hospital nearby if you cannot use the
return ticket.
5. With the prior authorisation of the Emergency Assistance Service, the additional costs incurred in
the use of air transport or other suitable means, including qualified attendants, to repatriate you
to your home if it is medically necessary. These expenses will be for the identical class of travel
utilised on the outward journey unless the Emergency Assistance Service agree otherwise.
6. Infants born abroad: (Claims involving multiple births are considered to be one event)
a. Per event, up to £75,000 in total for all expenses incurred outside of the United States of
America, Canada, the Caribbean and your home area.
b. Per event, up to £150,000 in total for all expenses incurred within the USA, Canada or the
Caribbean (provided these countries are included in the geographical area covered under
your policy) during a trip or for a one-way trip within the first 10 days of arriving at your final
destination (where the appropriate premium has been paid) in respect of infants born as a
result of your unexpected complication of pregnancy for;
i. Emergency medical, surgical, hospital, ambulance and nursing fees and charges
incurred outside of your home area.
What is covered
Special conditions relating to claims
1. You or someone on your behalf must tell the Emergency Assistance Service as soon as possible of any
bodily injury, illness, disease or complication of pregnancy which necessitates your admittance to
hospital as an inpatient or before any arrangements are made for your repatriation.
2. If you suffer bodily injury, illness, disease or complication of pregnancy we reserve the right to move
you from one hospital to another and/or arrange for your repatriation to the United Kingdom at any time
during the trip or one-way trip. We will do this, if in the opinion of the Emergency Assistance Service or
us (based on information provided by the medical practitioner in attendance), you can be moved safely
and/or travel safely to your home area or a suitable hospital nearby to continue treatment.
1. Any claim if you are unable to comply with the Important conditions relating to health (on page 17).
2. The first £125 of each and every claim, per incident claimed for, under this section by each insured
person but limited to £250 in all if family cover or single parent cover applies.
3. Any expenses which are not usual, customary and reasonable to treat your bodily injury,
complication of pregnancy, illness or disease or incurred as a result of your compulsory
quarantine.
4. Any claim arising from pregnancy related conditions not due to complications of pregnancy which
first arise after departing on your trip. Normal pregnancy or childbirth, or travelling when your
medical practitioner has recorded your pregnancy as high risk or being at a heightened risk of
premature birth, would not constitute an unforeseen event.
5. The cost of your unused original tickets where the Emergency Assistance Service or we have
arranged and paid for you to return to your home, if you cannot use the return ticket.
6. Any claim for infants born abroad, where a complication of pregnancy first arose prior to departing
on your trip. Normal childbirth or travelling when your medical practitioner has recorded your
pregnancy as high risk or being at a heightened risk of premature birth.
7. Any claims arising directly or indirectly for:
a. Costs of telephone calls, other than:
i. Calls to the Emergency Assistance Service notifying and dealing with the problem for
which you are able to provide receipts or other reasonable evidence to show the cost
of the calls and the numbers you telephoned.
ii. Any costs incurred by you when you receive calls on your mobile phone from the
Emergency Assistance Service for which you are able to provide receipts or other
reasonable evidence to show the cost of the calls.
b. The cost of taxi fares other than for your travel to or from hospital relating to your admission,
discharge or attendance for outpatient treatment or appointments or for collection of
medication prescribed for you by the hospital.
What is not covered
ii. If appropriate, the reasonable additional cost of funeral expenses abroad, plus the
reasonable cost of returning their ashes to your home, or the additional costs of
returning their body to your home.
iii. Reasonable additional transport and/or accommodation expenses incurred, up to the
standard of your original booking (for example full or half board, all inclusive, bed and
breakfast, self-catering or room only), if it is medically necessary to stay beyond your
scheduled return date.
iv. With the prior authorisation of the Emergency Assistance Service, the additional
costs incurred in the use of air transport or other suitable means, including qualified
attendants, to repatriate the infant(s) if it is medically necessary. These expenses
will be for the identical class of travel utilised on your outward journey unless the
Emergency Assistance Service agree otherwise.
Claims evidence
We will require (at your own expense) the following evidence where relevant:
• Receipts or bills for all inpatient/out-patient treatment or emergency dental treatment received.
• In the event of death, the original death certificate and receipts or bills for funeral, cremation or
repatriation expenses.
• Receipts or bills for taxi fares to or from hospital claimed for, stating details of the date, name and location
of the hospital concerned.
• Receipts or bills or proof of purchase for any other transport, accommodation or other costs, charges or
expenses claimed for, including calls to the Emergency Assistance Service.
• Any other relevant information relating to your claim under this section that we may ask you for.
c. The cost of treatment or surgery, including exploratory tests, which are not related to the
bodily injury, complication of pregnancy, illness, disease and/or compulsory quarantine
which necessitated your admittance into hospital.
d. Any form of treatment or surgery which in the opinion of the Emergency Assistance Service or
us (based on information provided by the medical practitioner in attendance), can be delayed
reasonably until your return to your home area.
e. Expenses incurred in obtaining or replacing medication, which you know you will need at
the time of departure or which will have to be continued outside of your home area. Where
possible and with the agreement of your medical practitioner, you should always travel with
plenty of extra medication in case of travel delays.
f. Additional costs arising from single or private room accommodation.
g. Treatment or services provided by a health spa, convalescent or nursing home or any
rehabilitation centre unless agreed by the Emergency Assistance Service.
h. Any costs incurred by you to visit another person in hospital.
i. Any expenses incurred after you have returned to your home area.
j. Any expenses incurred in England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man or the
Channel Islands which are:
i. For private treatment, or
ii. Are funded by, or are recoverable from the Health Authority in your home area, or
iii. Are funded by a Reciprocal Health agreement (RHA) between these countries and/or
Islands.
k. Any claim arising from your failure to obtain any recommended vaccines, inoculations or
medications prior to your trip.
l. Any expenses incurred after the date on which we exercise our rights under this section to
move you from one hospital to another and/or arrange for your repatriation but you decide
not to be moved or repatriated.
8. Anything mentioned in What is not covered - applicable to all sections of the policy.
To make a claim under this section
For curtailment claims +44 (0)203 126 4042 or for other claims 0330 024 8315